slow and steady wins a race with seo but
some industries are just too hard to
compete in unless you have millions and
millions of dollars hi everyone i'm neil
patel and today i want you to stop
trying to compete against these specific
websites in seo so that way you can
start getting traffic
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel if you're on
youtube click the alert notification now
before i tell you the websites you
shouldn't be competing with and what you
should be doing take a guess leave a
comment below with the type of websites
that you shouldn't be competing with
oh wait a few seconds seriously leave a
comment below i'm curious what websites
you think
so look there are three types of
competitors that you shouldn't be trying
to compete with the first is huge
indirect competitors amazon microsoft
ebay wikipedia you know investopedia
these are sites that may be ranking for
some keywords but they're not really
comparison heck i want to rank number
one on google for the term seo a lot of
times when i search that term guess who
ranks number one no it's not wikipedia a
lot of times it's google
how do you compete with that you gotta
accept that they're not really a
competitor and you just have to be okay
with them
the second is competitors ranking for
head terms there's a lot of competitors
out there who just rank for any head
terms because they're super popular and
they have a lot of backlinks and they've
just been around for 12 years but if
they're not competitors and they don't
offer the products and services that you
offer you don't have to really worry
about them and i recommend that you hit
them up and try to strike up affiliate
deals
the third one is competitors with too
high of a domain authority
if a competitor has too high of a domain
authority
a lot of times it's gonna be hard to
beat them in the short run and that's
okay even if they're in your space you
know just don't try to beat them in the
short run in the long run
of course they should be a competitor
and you should try to beat them in the
short run
go after terms and keywords and sites
that you can actually be
and this brings me to what you should be
doing right in the short run so first
off i want you to go to ubersuggest
and i want you to end up putting in your
competitors and uber suggests this will
show you all their top pages what
they're getting traffic for what
keywords are driving traffic to those
urls and the people who are linking to
those urls
and this is really important because if
someone links your competitor and
multiple your competitors the chances
are they're willing to link to youtube
if you have a list of all the keywords
that drive traffic to your competitors
and uber suggests you can use those
keywords and put them into the keyword
ideas report and i'll show you longer
tail variations of those keywords you
can also put in your url into the
keyword ideas report
when you click on hey
what are the keywords that i can break
on page one for and when you put in your
url what you'll end up finding is
uber status will adjust the keyword
ideas report and show you the keywords
that you actually have a chance to rank
for based on your authority some of
those keywords will be disappeared
because you're like hey by comparison
firm i want to rank for them too but if
they're not achievable right now uber
system will tell you so that way you're
not wasting your time another thing that
i want you to do is look at the backlink
opportunities report within ubersuggest
and the backlink opportunities report
you put in your url as well as the a few
of your competitors and it'll show you
who links to all your competitors but
not to you because it's someone links to
not just one not just two but three of
your competitors and not you that means
they don't mind linking to competitors
they already linked to three of them why
wouldn't they link to you as well so
then when you create similar content to
them and you outreach them there's a
really high probability that they'll
link to you and a lot of people get
discouraged from link building because
they're like neil i reach out to all
these sites and no one wants a link yeah
because you're reaching out to sites
that don't care to link out to other
sites in your space but if someone links
out to not one not two but three plus
competitors the chances are they'll link
to you as well another report that i
want you to check out an uber suggests
is
the keywords opportunity report so when
you look at this keyword opportunity
report it'll show you all the
competitors that rank for similar
keywords and for keywords that you don't
rank for so you look at all the similar
keywords like all right my computer is
ranked for these keywords i rank for
these keywords but then hey here are all
the keywords that your competitors rank
for that you don't you take those
keywords run them through uber says
again and it'll tell you which of those
ones you actually have the probability
of ranking for right now this is great
because then you know where to focus
your efforts so that way you can start
getting results right away now when you
do all these changes what you'll find is
in the short run you'll start getting
more and more traffic and as you get
more and more traffic i want you to log
into google search console and look at
the pages that get a lot of impressions
but not as many clicks
click through on those pages in google
search console it'll then show you all
the keywords that get a lot of
impressions but not as many clicks
and then what i want you to do is go
through those keywords see which ones
are relevant and make sure that you're
talking about those keywords within your
article if it's not relevant don't worry
about it but if it is make sure it's
within the content within your title tag
within your meta description and that
allows you to get more traffic now if
you need help with any of these
strategies check out my ad agency np
digital if you enjoy the video like it
share it have any questions leave a
comment i'm here to help thank you for
watching